Our team’s project proposal is to use the 2009 INFECTIOUS: STAY AWAY exhibition dataset to analyze the rates of infection within a large group based on the means through which infections spread based on connections. We plan on using this to analyze the relationship between the number of social contacts and the rate of infection and the probability of infections based on the original infection vector. We will download the file in TSV format and use a basic parsing algorithm to read through each line, and store the data in the form of an adjacency matrix. If the number of edges is few compared to the number of zeroes, we may then convert and store this in the form of a CSR sparse matrix, depending on the ease of implementing our planned algorithms on a sparse matrix. Since the data stores multiple edges between some points as multiple interactions, we will address this potential issue by using the number of edges between two nodes as the weight for that node. Any other errors will be addressed by storing zeros, which should not have a major impact on the value of the data as long as the number of errors is limited. 
We plan on using Dijkstra's algorithm with an expected time complexity of O(|V|^2), as we are using a matrix format, which will have two implementations. In one, it will take in two unsigned integers representing the indices of nodes as inputs, and return the shortest path and distance. In the other implementation, it will take in one unsigned integer representing the indice of a beginning node as an input, and return a shortest path tree that can serve as a worst-case scenario spread of infections.
We also plan on using a modified version of PageRank with an expected time complexity of O(|V|+|E|) to approximate the number of iterations that may be necessary for a certain amount of the population to be infected. We will do this by generating a markov matrix in which each column represents the probability of having an interaction with each person, normalized by the maximum number of connections and with the remaining amount modeled as staying alone. Then, we will edit one column of the markov matrix to have no outside connections; this will be the “infected vector”. We will run PageRank until at least that percentage of people are within that state of contact with the infected person. Our initial vector will have an equal probability of being in any state; that is, of each person. Our inputs will be the column to be modified, the percentage of infected persons to be found, and the max number of iterations, which represents the amount of time spent interacting. We will return an unsigned integer that represents the number of iterations that were run.
Timeline:
April 10-16 : Import dataset and convert to an adjacency matrix. Investigate use of sparse matrix. Begin implementation of  Dijkstra's algorithm. Begin slides on project goals. Add a paragraph to development. 
April 17-23: Finish implementation of Dijkstra's algorithm. Begin implementing PageRank.  Add a paragraph to development. 
April 24-30: Finish implementing PageRank. Work out final bugs and issues with algorithms. Add to slides on project development and conclusions. Add a paragraph to development. 
May 1 -5: Write up results. Finish and update slides. Record final presentation and submit.


### Signatures:
* sahasrm2, mmhorn2
